***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:Programming language is a set of instructions that produce various
kind of output.Its a means to communicate with machine.Programming languages
are used in computer programming to implement algorithms.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:JDK means Java development kit .its three in one core technology packages used
in java programing they are:
-The JVM:Java Virtual Machine  is the  platform component that executes programs.
-The JRE-Java Runtime Environment is the on disk part of Java that creates the JVM.
_The JDK - The Java Development kit allows developers to create java programs
that can be executed and run by the JVM & JRE.
In fine,JDK is a package of tools ,whereas JRE is a package of tools for running java code.
The JRE are used standalone component to simply run Java programs ,but it is also a part of
the jdk.The JDK requires a JRE because running java programs is part of developing them.



What is an IDE?
Answer:IDE Integrated development Environment is a software application which enables
users to more easily write and debug Java programs.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Examples of IDEs include Netbeans ,Eclips,Intillij etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:
Normally Java has 4 stages passing in its life.
1.Java source code
2.Java complier [javac]
3.Java Virtual Machine [jvm]
4.Machine Readable Instructions [Executed by CPU].
When we type source code in a text editors to the point that source code is converted
into machine code(0's and 1's) .
There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program.There are
-Editingthe program.
-Compling the source code
-Executing the byte code
When we started with typing the program in a text editors like notepad,notepad++,
wordpad,textEdit etc.the file saves in .java extension.
Second step is compilation.The name of the java compiler is Javac.The output to the compiler
is java source code which is available in Sample java.The output of the compiler is machine
independent or platform.Independent code which is known as bytecode.The file which is
generated after compilation is .class file.
Last step is execution.the bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java
Virtual Machine .Input to the JVMis bytedode and output is machine code 0's and 1's t0 be
executed by the CPU of the local machine.


What is a class?
Answer:A class is a blue print from which individual objects are created.
A class in Java can contain
- Fields
-ethods
-Constructors
-Blocks
-Nested class and interface


What is an object?
An Entity that has state and behavoir is known as an object.e.g.
chair,bike,pencil,table car etc.It can be physical or logical  ie tangible or
intangible. Sofware objects,conceptually similar to real world objects.They consist
of state and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:The main method () is the entry point of any application.

Why is the main() static?
Answer:Java main () method always static.Compiler can call it without the creation
of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Java.lang.Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which
is present in java.lang package.All defined classes and user defined classes are the
subclasses from object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:We can differentiate path and classpath in Java 4 ways;
1.By defination:Path is environmental variable .It is used by operating system to find the
executable files (.exe).
Classpath is also an enmvironmental varialbe used byu application ClassLoder to locate
and load the class files .
2.Setting:in order to set PATH ,JDK_HOME /bin dorectory needs to be included in Path
environment variable.
CLASSPATH to be needed all the directories which contain class files and jar files as
required by application.
3.Overridden;PATH environment varialbe once set ,its vakue can not be overridden via java settting.
But CLASSPATH can be overridden both javac and java commands.
4.Usages:PATH is used by operating System.to execute command in the shell or to find any
binary.
On the other hand,CLASSPATH is only usedf by application CLASSLOADER to load class files
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Difference  between abstract class and interface that are given below;
1.Abstract class can have abstract & non abstract methods.
 but interface can have only abstract method.It can have default and static method also.
 2.Abstract class does not support multiple inheritance but interface support multiple
 inheritance
 3.Abstract class can have final,non final ,static and non static variables.
 Interface has only static  and final variables.
 4.Abstract class can provide the implementation of interface but interface can not be.
 5.The Abstract keyword is used to declare abstract class but interface uses interface
 keyword.
 6.An abstract class can extended another java class and implement multiple java interface
  An interface can be implemented another interface only.
  7.A abstract class can be extended using keyword "extends"
   An interface can be implemented using keyword "implements"

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:No,we can not instantiate interface.
On the other hand,we can not create a object of an abstract class.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: A Java access modifier specifies which classes can access a given
class and its fields,constructors and methods.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:OOP stands Object oriented programming model that organizes software
design around data or objects,rather than functions and logic.An object can
be defined as a data field that has unique attributes and behaviour.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:Package in Java can be categorized two form built in package and user-defined
package.There are bmany built-in-package such as java ,lang,awt,javax,swing,net,io,
util,sql etc.
Java compiler imports java lang package internally by default .It provides the fundamental
classes that are necessary to design a basic java program.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface which is a software
intermediary  that allows two applications to talk to each other.
API example like Facebook or Accuweather.


Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:Java support bilateral inheritance  not support multiple inheritances .
The reason behind this is to prevent ambiguity.
What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:In Java,two or more methods may have ther same name if they differ in paramesters
These methods are called overloaded methods  and that feature is called method overloading.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:When an occurs within in a method creates an object and handle it off to the runtime
system.The object is called exception object.
Java exception handling is managed by five keywords like try,catch,throw,throws and
finally.
what is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In the Java programming language ,the key word static indicates that the particular
memeber belongs to type itself rather than to an instance of that type.This means that
only one instance of that static member is created which is shared across all intances
of the class.
static is a non access modifier in java which is appplicable for the following
1.Blocks
2.variables
3.methods
4.nested classes
When a memeber is declared static ,it can be accessed before any objects its class
are created.and asny reference to any object.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The final keyword in java is used to restrict the user.When a  class is declared
with the final keyword its call final class.A final class con not be extended.


Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:Final:Final is a keyword in Java class.its used for restrictions on class,method,
variable.it can not be inherited or extended.
finally:Finally is a block.Finally is used to place important code its to be executed
when exception is handle or not.
finalize:Finalize is a method.its used to perform clean up processing just before object
is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a  class is created.It can be used to set
initial values for attributes.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:Yes. we can do .

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:If we do not delare  constructor in our class,a default constructor is
automatically invoked .

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:this keyword in java is a reference variable that refers to the current object
of a method or a constructor.
The main purpose of using this keyword in java is to remove the confusion
between class atributes and parameters that have same names.
What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: super is a reserved keyword in java i.e.we can not use it as an identifier,
super is used to refer super class's instance as well as static members.
super is also used to invoke super class's method or constructor.


What does JVM stand for?
Answer:JAVA Stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:Yes,Java platform indepencence.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:My java version is: Microsoft Windows [Version 10.0.19041.867]

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for Java archive .It is a xip file which contains a couples
of class files and a text files containing some meta information.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK Java development kit is a software is used for code execution.
On the other hand,JVM Java Virtual Machine is an abstruct.JVM converts byte code into
machine specific code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine and JRE Stands for Java Runtime Environment.
JRE is the implementation of JVM.Its a software package that provides java class
libraries along with java virtual machine .

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:
Compile time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable
code.On the other way,run time is the time at which the excutable code is started
running.Both the compile time and run time refer to different types of error.

What is heap?
Answer:,Heap is the section of memory which contains objects and may also contain
reference variables.Instance variables are created in the heap.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Memory allocation in java is the process in which the virtual memory sections
are set aside in a program for storing the variables and instances of structures
and classes.Howover,the memory is not allocated to an object at declaration
but only a referencre is created .For the memory allocation of the object,new()
method is used ,so the object is always allocated memory on the heap.
The Java memery allocation is divided into 4 sections
1.Heap 2.Stack 3.code 4.Static

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas Stringbuffer and stringbuildetr are mutable classes.
Stringbuffer is tread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuider is not.So Strinbuider
is faster than StringBuffer.
String concatenation operator (+)internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder
class.
For String manipulation in a non multi threaded environment.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:In object oriented programming ,a singleton class is a class that can have
only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte
stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to
recreate the actual java object in memory.This mechanism is used to persist the object



Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:
The while loop is tested at the beginning of the loop and if the condition is true.
then only statement in that loop will be executed.So, the while loop executes
the code block only if the condition is true.
The Do while loop ,the condition is tested  the end of the loop .SO, the Do while
executes the statements in the code block at least one even if the condition fails.

What is Enum?
Answer:Enum is a special class that represents a group of constants variables like
final variable.

What is Iterator?
Answer:Iteraor in Java is an object that can be used to loop through collections.
like ArrayList,and Hashset.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:int is a primitive data type and needs 32 bits on the other hand ,
Interger is an object which takes 128 bites .So Integer occupy more memory.


Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:Becuase String objects are cached in String pool.Since cached String
literals are shared between multiple clients there is always risk , where one
clients action would affect all another clients.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Jva constructor chaining is a method of calling one constructor with the
help of another while considering the present object.within the same class.It
can be done using this()keyword for constructor in the same class.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:Serial garbage collector works by holding all the application treads.
It is designed for the single threaded environment.
On the other hand, Parallel garbage collector is the default garbage collector
of the jvm.This uses multiple threads for garbage collection.


What does JIT stands for?
Answer:JIT The Just-In -Time compiler is a component of the run time environment
that improves the performance of java applications by compiling bytecodes to native
machine code at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java Garbage Collection is the process  by which java programs perform
automatic memory management.Java programs compiler to byetcode that can be run
on a Java virtual Machine.The Garbage collector finds these unused objects and deletes
them to free up memory.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No. Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of
memory.Garbage collection handles most of the memory management and makes all possible
attempts to make memory available for the application but it does not guarantee
that it will be able to privide it.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Stack space is mainly used for storing order of method execution and local execution and local
variables.Stack always stored block in LIFO-Last in First out order.whereas heap
memory used dynamic allocation for allocating and deallocating memory blocks.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior
of method ,classes,interfaces at runtime.The Required classes for reflection
are provided under java lang reflect package.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading is a java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more
parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.Each part of such program is called
thread .So,thresds are  light weight processes within a process.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronization in java is the capacity to control the access of multiple threads
to shared resources.Java synchronisation is  option where we want to allow only one
thread to access the shared resources.

What is a Framework?
Answer:Java frameworks are bodies of rewritten code used by developers
to create apps using the java programming language.
What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:Best Testing Framework in Java 1.Selenium 2.Serenity 3.IUnit
4.TestNG 5.Cucumber 6.JBehave 7.Mockito etc.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is a java unit testing framework that's one of the best method for
regression  testing.An open source framework .it is used to write and run repeatable
automated test.
What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection DI is the concept in which objects get other
 required objects from outside.DI can be implemented in any programming
 language.
Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding happens when all information needed to call a function
is available at the compile time.Dynamic binding happens when all information
needed for a function call can not be determined at compile time.