***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:Data structure can be defined as the group of data elements which provides
an efficient way of storing and organizing data in the computer so that it can be
used efficiently like Array in java.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:Data structure is defined as a mathematical or logical model to store data
perform operation on the stored data.The operations are the functions using which
the data can be processed .All the data structure have common to manipulate
data and process it for the user.The most common data structure operations are
as follow:
Traversal:
Insertion:
Deletion:
Search:
Sort:
Merge:
Copy:

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:Now a days data structures provide a means to manage large of data efficiently
for uses as an example large amount of database and internet indexing service.
Data structure using and organizing the storage and retrieve of information stored in
both main memory and  secondary memory.

What is an Array?
Answer:An array is a container object that holdsl a fixed number values of a single
type.The length of an array is established when the array is created.After creation,
its length is fixed.Each item in an array is called an element and each element is
accessed by its numerical index.


What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:An array is basic functionality provided by Java.Arraylist is a part of collection
framework in Java.So, array members are accessed using [] while ArrayList has a
set of methods to access elements and modify them.Array is a fixed size data structure
while Arraylist is  not a fixed size.


What is a LinkedList?
Answer: LinkedList in Java is a linear data structure.LinkedList elements are not store
in contiguous locations like arrays,they are lined with each other using pointers.
Each elements of the LinkedList has the reference to the next element of the LinkedList.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:Array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index on the other hand
is an ordered collection of elements is connected to the next using pointers.

What is a Queue?
Answer:Java Queue is a collection of ordered elements but it performs insert and
remove operation differently.Java queue is stored elements before processing those
elements.

What is a Stack (not Java memory - refers to data structure)?
Answer:Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the
operations are performed.The order may be Last in First out and First in last out.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:FIFO Stands for First in First out
       LIFO Stands for First in Last out

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:Big O Notation is a mathematical that describing the limiting of a function
when the arguments tends towards a particular value or infinity.In a word,
Big O notation describe the complexity of code using algebraic term.



What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:In array first or last element will be worst case complexity in binary
search from an array.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:A tree is a non linear data structure where data objects are organized in term
of hierarchical relationship.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:A graph data structure consists of a finite set of vertices which is called
nodes or points together with a set of onordered pairs of these vertices for an
undirected graph or a set of ordered pairs for as directed graph.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:Difference between HahMap and HashTable;
1.HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values  whereas Hashtable does not allow
any null key or value.
2.HashMap is non synchronized .it is not thread safe and can not be shared
between many threads without proper synchronization code whereas HashTable is
synchronized .It is thread safe and can be shared with many threads.


What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model
Answer:Array data structure is using in RDBMS,Networks etc.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?

Answer:HashMap is a part of java collection framework.It uses a technique called hashing.
It store the data in the pair of key and value.HshMap contains an array of the nodes
and the node is represented as class .It uses an array and LinkedList data structure
internally for story key and value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:The array index out of bound error is a special case of the buffer overflow
 error.it occurs when the index used to address array items exceeds the allowed
 value .It is the area outside the array bound which is being addreesed.that's
 why this situation is considered as a case of undefined behavior.


What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:We can do following way
_Use variable assignment.This method has side effects as changes to the element
of an array reflects on both the places.
-To creat a new array of the same length and copy each element.
-use the clone method of the array
-use system.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:BFS stands for Breath First Search .
DFS stands for Depth First Search.

What is Recursion?
Answer:Recursion in Java is a technique of making a function call itself.This
technique provide a way to break complicated problems down into the simple
problems which are easier to solve.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:A Linear data structure is a type of data structure that arranges the data
items in an orderly manner whereas the elements are attached adjacently while a
non linear data structure is a type of data structure that arranges data in stored
order ,creating a relationship among the data elements.


Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Efficiency of an algorithm on 2 parameter.
1.Time complexity:Time complexity as defined as the number of times a particular
instruction set is executed rather than the local time is taken.It is because
the total time taken also depands on some external factors like th compiler used,processor
speed etc.
2.Space complexcity:Space complexity is the total memory space required by the
program for its execution.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a) In terms of Accessing elements:
  b) In terms of Inserting elements:
  c) In terms of Searching elements:
  d) In terms of Removing elements: